# Movie Recommender System using Matrix Factorization

This project implements a simple movie recommender system using matrix factorization techniques with PyTorch. The system utilizes collaborative filtering to predict user ratings for movies that they haven't rated yet.

## Files Structure

- `data_loader.py`: Contains the `RatingsDataset` class which loads and prepares the dataset for training, mapping user and movie IDs to indices.
- `matrix_factorization.py`: Contains the `MatrixFactorization` model
- `main.py`: The entry point of the program that initializes the recommender system, trains it, and outputs the final recommendation matrix.
- `predictor.py`: We can use the trained weights/model to get top n movies for any user
- `requirements.txt`: Contains the dependencies required to run the project.

## How the Model Works

### Matrix Factorization

Matrix factorization is a technique for collaborative filtering. It decomposes the user-item rating matrix into two lower-dimensional matrices: one representing user embeddings and the other representing item (movie) embeddings. The model then predicts missing values in the user-item matrix by computing the dot product of the corresponding user and item embeddings.

### Training

The recommender system is trained using the MatrixFactorization model, where:

- The user and movie embeddings are learned during training.
- The objective is to minimize the mean squared error (MSE) between the predicted ratings and the actual ratings in the dataset.

### Final Recommendation Matrix

After training, the full recommendation matrix is generated by multiplying the learned user and item embeddings. This matrix contains the predicted ratings for all users and movies.


## Setup Instructions

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ashhalll/movie-GT.git
   cd recommendation-system
   ```
2. Install the required dependencies:
   ```bash
      pip install -r requirements.txt
      ```
3. Train the model:
   This trains the model and stores the predicted matrix to the local folder. It maps each user to each movies with ratings.
   ```bash
      python main.py
   ```
4.How to Use the Final Matrix
   This load the predicted matrix and uses it to find top n movies for any specific user. Modify the user id and n movies beofre running.
   ```bash
      python predictor.py
   ```


